The testes are egg-shaped
glands in the scrotum that
produce male sex hormones and sperm.
Most testicular cancers
begin in germ cells,
which produce immature sperm.
Why germ cells become abnormal and
develop cancer is not known.
Testicular cancer is usually diagnosed
because a man or his doctor
has found a hard lump on the testicle.
It is usually painless unless
the cancer has advanced.
Treatment depends on the type
and stage of cancer.
There are two main types of testicular cancer:
seminomas and nonseminomas.
Seminomas are generally less aggressive
than nonseminomas,
which are more likely to develop
early in life and grow and spread rapidly.
Stage I testicular cancer
is limited to the testis.
Stage II has spread to
the lymph nodes in the abdomen.
And Stage III has spread to
other parts of the body.
Testicular cancer is highly treatable,
even when it has spread beyond the testicle.
Primary treatment is removal of the testicle,
and sometimes the lymph nodes in the groin.
Seminomas may also be
treated with radiation.
Chemotherapy may be used
along with surgery.
Regular self-examination of the
testes can help to identify
cancer early at its earliest stages.